Okay, the captain of the team. And we're talking
about, what are we talking about now, the captain?
Yeah, he was the captain of that company. Oh, okay,
the captain of that company. And the president of
the class. I'm not going to call their names. And
the president of the class now had those people
come back here wearing a badge. we like Frank. This
is twenty years later see. They changed a lot in
twenty years. They mature a little bit.
Now we'll take a little, just on the board paddling
I'll do that. Well let's wait because we're going
to, was that another one of the problems when you
were commandant? What did you try to do when you
were commandant? Well, yes, yes. Now, for...
I, as chairman of the, the commandant is chairman
of the discipline committee.
I didn't want, I didn't give that discipline
committee a chance to fire anybody. The law would
fire somebody if he, If he was tasing, they didn't
allow that. Legislature didn't allow that.
Right. But I had to, in order to get them to give that
up, I had to get pretty tough. One old boy, I
remember he was a junior. He threw his own captain
into the fish tank out here at the class picnic, and
he was the meanest man in school with a paddle.
Well, I told those people, you don't have to take
abuse. You don't have to tell me who you are. But if
you've got something that you want me to know, you
can just drop me a line and tell me about it. This old
boy was a junior now. He was real tough.
I went to his place and I said, I want to see you in
your trunk. He got his paddle out. It had so many
notches on it. I said, you have done, you just got
through throwing your own captain into the fish
tank. You're a mean, big, tough guy that
somebody's going to straighten you out. And I'm
the guy to do it. You people are roughed up and mean
tough but I'm tougher than any of you. You're going
to move out of your outfit and you're going to live
in Devil's Island. There was an old piece of a
dormitory down yonder that the married
professors used to live in but then when they
abandoned that thing they just left it down there.
It still had lights in it. I guess it had a few old
beds or something. Now I said, boy, you're going to
move out to Devil's Island. Now you can either do
that or you're going to be shipped from A&M College
because you've been mean as a son of a bitch. Now,
what you want to do? You want to go move to Devil's
Island or you want to leave school? Well, he went to
Devil's Island. I didn't hurt him. That didn't
embarrass his parents.
I told you the same thing I did to these boys that
carried these things out. I told you about the
no toilet paper on the train. We went up to Fort
Worth. That was the first court trip. I told you
about that. I did. Well, I won't go into that
anymore. I thought I didn't know for sure. Why did
you resign in 1937 as Commandant? Well, they
threatened to strike
and of course the board of directors had to begin to
take a hand. And why did they threaten to strike?
Because you were clamping down? Oh yes, because I
didn't live up to my promise. I told them if they
would give up the paddle I would enforce their
rams.
And then after a year I thought something over. I
said now here's a ram that I'm making this poor damn
freshman carry food. when he gets caught when he's
not guilty at all. And I don't like to do that. And so
I got out an order that I would not enforce their
round for that one thing. Well they wouldn't take
it that way. You just didn't say that. You said you
would enforce our rounds if we'd give up the
paddle.
I was the only one that ever felt that way about it.
As far as I know, the board of directors, the
president, and everybody else just figured that I
ought to, evidently ought to have done, ought to
have enforced those ramps and said nothing about
it. But I'm just not that way. How can anybody be
that way? You gotta be reasonable. And so that was
it.
The board of directors came up here to make an
investigation. They talked to every senior that
wanted to talk to them. They never did ask to see me.
I went down there and I said, you haven't asked to
see me, but now I'm asking to see you.
And I went over this stuff with them. And they still
couldn't figure that I should have done it. I said,
well, now listen, if you don't want my program, you
don't want me. I'm resigning. They said, oh no. No,
no, no. We're not going to let you resign. You'll
save us $15,000 on broken furniture and stuff like
that. You made them pay for it. But that's the only
thing they complimented me for. They could
understand those dollars and the fact that I made
those boys quit doing that stuff and things like
that. Well, one old boy at the school just kicked
all the slaps out of the window, out of the door. His
name was John Crow. No, it wasn't John, it was his
younger brother. Well, I just told him, I said, now
Dr. Walton, I'm not going to stand for that stuff,
but will you promise me, Dr. Walton, that you will
spend everything I sent, that I saved this school
this year, this coming year, will you give them
better furniture? He said, I sure will. Now that's
the only thing that board of directors
complimented me on was saving them that money. And
so I just resigned. And as I said, they wouldn't
take my resignation. He says, we're going to come
up here and straighten things out. Well, that
sounded all right to me. That's all I wanted them to
do. But you know what those darn people did? No,
what? They double crossed me. They
double-crossed me. Dr. Walton called me in the
middle of the summer, or it might have been late in
August. It had been here, it's been three months
now since all this confrontation took place.
Everybody that knew anything about A&M, that they
didn't like at least, after all these thousands of
freshmen that had run off, I had letters and
telegrams from people like that. backing me up.
The law of the state backed me up.
So, by golly, they couldn't take my resignation
because they're backing up people that were doing
all these things that are not even legal. And here
I'm trying to straighten it out and they have taken
the side of senior class. And so I just quit. Then
they said, no, we're not going to let you quit.
You've done too much good and decided that $15,000
had saved
them. They couldn't afford to do it because if they
took the side of these other people, they'd be on
the spot because they're defending stuff that the
state of Texas didn't want them to defend. That
senior class got together with me before they
struck over at the old line and pleaded with me,
please don't change our school. We'd rather have
1,500 good eggs than 15,000 tea suppers. I said,
don't change our school. Please don't change our
school. I said, it's not your school. You've taken
it over and you think that you've run it. you're
only allowed to come here. This is not your school.
This school belongs to the University of the State
of Texas, the people of the State of Texas, and I'm
not going to let you keep doing what you're doing."
All right. Then's when this struck. That had been
followed by the incident of the Beale over here,
you see. They just got together to talk things over
with me that I had made them a promise. I finally had
to walk out on them. I said, there's no use in you
talking to me anymore, cause you, we're just miles
and miles apart. And I just walked out. Well then
that's when they decided they couldn't take any
more of me. And I had decided that they didn't, it
was me or nothing. And I'd already told the board of
directors that. But they weren't men enough to
take my resignation. They couldn't stand against
all this backing that I had all over the state. They
just wanted to ease me out. And after about three
months, Dr. Walton called me in and said, now,
Colonel Frank, you've got a lot of friends around
here. A lot of people respect you pretty heavily,
pretty deeply.
But the board of directors feels it would be better
just would be better for you to go on back down to the
athletic field."
I said, alright. Alright, Dr. Walton.
I just love you, Dr. Walton, and you're an awful
good friend of mine, but you just, he was getting
ready to go to Europe for some, you know, their own
business. And I said, you just have a good time now
over in Europe. So everything's gonna be all right
over here. And I just, I just boiling inside. I went
to Dean Bolton and I said, Dean Bolton,
I'm not through fighting. I don't like to be
treated like that. I'm going to Houston right now
and I'm going to run the
chairman of the board of directors of this state if
I can." He said, oh, Mr. Anderson, Mr. Anderson,
please don't do that. He said, you set this school
back ten years. Oh, Lordy Dean Bolton, I don't want
to do that. But I said, Dean Bolton, you've got more
sense than I have. I'll do what you said. He said,
well, Mr. Anderson, he said, I'm on your side a
whole lot, Mr. Anderson, but I think that you'd be
better to do what they said. He said, Mr. Anderson,
you believe in revolution, not evolution. That's
what that good old dean told me. I guess he's right.
Oh, Lord have mercy. Well. So you resigned in 1937.
I go back down to the athletic field. We win six out
of the seven of the first, my next year's. And then
the
former students under Coach Bryant got us in
trouble.
And I told him, I said, now I'm going to resign, I
mean retire in a couple of years, Coach.
I can't take my team to the Texas relays. I can't
take my team to the Drake or the Kansas relays. I
can't take them to the NCAA meet because we're on
probation. And they put track on probation along
with football and everything else. They
shouldn't have done it. They ought to just punish
the people that did this thing and your former
students did it. Why? Tell me about this. I said, I
have nothing to work for, coach. I haven't had a
place to take my teams to. Please get a youngster
and let me work with him for the next two years. He
wouldn't give a darn about track. He was kind to me.
I'm an old boy that's getting ready to retire. And
who's this now? Who's this now? I was getting ready
to retire. No, I know, but who were you talking to?
Brown. Oh, okay. Bear Bryant. Okay. He didn't care
about track either. Oh, well he had no, he wanted to
play football in the spring. He wanted to play
football all year round. He didn't care about any
other sport but track. But football. And so, and I
said, Now you do that because if you don't track's
going to suffer because I'm leaving here after two
years. I cannot afford to leave now because of my
teacher's retirement and social security. I've
got to get those up and I won't be old enough to
retire. But there's things are why there's
nothing to work for much.
So he said, oh, coach, you're just doing fine. He
said, we don't need it. He said, we don't need
anything any better. You're just doing real fine.
And so I couldn't get him to get anybody at all.
Well, two years came around, and now I'm quitting.
And I went to him, and I said, now, coach, I'm going
now. And you haven't got anybody. nearly July and
all the people had been recruited for next year.
Why
don't you just get Putnam? Putnam was a professor
who used to come down and help me with the distance
man. He was an old mile champion. About an old, I saw
him run Lincoln, Nebraska. Win the mile. And he was
down here, and I knew him, and I got him to come out
there and help me a little bit. And he helped
O'Ryland and on up to Charlie Thomas for a few years
before he stopped.
Well, then he just volunteered this statement
when he hadn't got anybody. He says, Coach, they
ought not to be a track coach. He says, as far as I'm
concerned, they ought not to be a baseball coach.
Two professors ought to come down here and run
those on a part-time basis. Now that's what Barry
Brown told me. Wow. That's incredible, isn't it?
Yeah.
And that explained why he didn't get anybody for
those two years. And of course, Charlie Thomas
followed Putnam and Putnam, he just didn't have
any time to coach the team. No. He is a full-time
professor. Here I am You know, I was a coach that had
all the waiter jobs. I said we didn't have any help
from the former students. You said that the former
students got you in trouble in the 1950s. Will you
tell me about that? How'd they get you in trouble?
How'd they get you on probation? By, by, well, all
the coaches in the conference teamed up on Barbara
Brown. he was winning. And I just felt he had just
raised the ante, you see. Because they were doing
things about getting people in. But he gets people
in that they couldn't get in, you see. And he's
beaten them. And they didn't like that.
I think he must have just given somebody or got, I
don't think he did it, but I think some former
students that had some money did it. And they
teamed up on him and they finally got him. He left.
Yeah.
But how did you get on probation? But he
got Putnam and Putnam was no time at all. couldn't
do anything with that track team. He had them one
year, and then they got Charlie Thomas. And it took
Charlie some while to build up the team. And I
helped Charlie Thomas. I helped him. I worked with
those people for four or five or six years, just
like I was coaching. He and Ted Nelson were both
runners.
And my strong point was in the field. My jumpers and
falters and weight men and my hurdlers were better
than my runners. I don't care whether they were
short or long runners. But we did have a mile relay
team that wasn't defeated for four years. I want to
show you their picture. But I was a field man
mostly. And then the people who run the Olympic
Games were kind enough to make me an Olympic coach,
and give me field events to coach. And I had a chance
to work with some boys. Al Orter stills were on the
discus. He threw it for me the first time he was ever
in the Olympics. And he used the swing that I had for
him. Rayford Johnson was the Catholic man. He used
the swing that I gave him. And he won the decathlon
second that year and then the next four years he won
the darn thing. I had boys to win first and second
in three events and first in two of them. On that
team it went to Australia.
That was an honor to get up to be an Olympic coach.
And we were the only coaches that's ever done any
coaching because that happened to be in the
southern hemisphere. We have Olympics up here in
August, late August. And down there they have them
in late November. So we got that team together in
September and coached them. actually worked with
them. I had a chance to change somebody's form and
teach them a better way. They can't do that now when
you're a coach and then you get on the boat. The day
you qualify, you get on the boat and here you go. And
all they can do, coaches, all they can do is try to
keep the men from going to sleep. One poor guy let
his sprinter sleep while they were out there
running the race. I have a question about your
attempts to control hazing. Tell me about the
hazing problem.
Well, they
hazed in a number of ways.
A freshman was more or less, that's a little female
red bird. If the male comes out there and you see the
red one, you call my attention to it and I'll go out
and feed him. He won't fly off. If she's out there to
hear me, I'd call him in. Cardinal, now that's his
daughter.
He was out there yesterday feeding her. He'd take
up a grain, he'd run across and she'd open her mouth
and he'd put it in her mouth. Now that's a young one,
a young cardinal, female. Alright now, is this
thing still working? Sure is. That's okay. Where
am I? You're talking about the number of different
ways in which the Corps hazed. Yeah.
Well, I've told you about drilling them at
midnight. Yeah. I would like to give...
Now, I'm now back in athletics. A year or two later,
I go down to Corpus. A year or two later than what? I
go to Corpus with my track team. During the... What
year? Easter...
period off. Well, this would be 46, 47, 48, 58, 59,
60, 61,
62, 63,
those years. Down there was my team. Gibb is up here
now struggling in what I'm doing, what I did. He
took up the torch that I passed to him He's a
University of Texas graduate who is now president
of A&M College. He's trying to carry out what I
started. He's trying to break up this business of
running everybody off from A&M and keeping them
here and graduating them and getting more people
to come that are afraid to come. And he was an
important character. He was a fine man but he had He
didn't know how to make a lot of friends. He didn't
make a lot of friends at A&M College. But to me, he is
the best man that ever put a foot on this campus.
Because he put my baby over. The legislature
backed him. But now, before it came down to a crisis
and they had to back him. I was down at Corpus now
with my track team. He was in bad with the school
because he was trying to carry out the program that
I had started.
Seniors, all the seniors went to different places
to make a speech during that time, Easter break in
school, to get Jeb Gilchrist out. The senior from
Corpus Christi the son of the mother of the A&M
Mother of the Year, fine people. He got up there and
he rang all those people at that A&M club meeting in
Corpus.
Old Colonel Bill Sterling, a fine old,
he's general now, just a fine character. a
well-known one, he was there, the chairman of that
meeting. Well, that man talked. Well, I was
sitting there with old Cleo Buck, who was the
captain of my team in 28. This is now a long time
later. But he is an alumnus that lives in Corpus.
Bill sees me out back there and he says, Colonel
Anderson's here. I want to come up here and say a
word. come on up here, Frank, come on up here now,
don't, don't, don't, back row, other way, come on.
And he said, now, this, you tell us what, what you
think about all this stuff that this man's talked
about. Well, I said, Bill, I just, I just 100%
disagree with you. I just back, give Gilchrist to
the limit. He's doing and has done what I couldn't
try, I tried very hard to do. And, uh, He said, well,
he said, well, just sit down here. He said,
freshman, I want to ask you some questions. What do
you think of A&M? Oh, I think it's fine. I think it's
fine. He said, school's nearly out now. He says, I
paid the price. I'll get it even next year. You'll
get it even next year? What you mean? Well, I can
give them the same treatment they gave me. And,
well, what do you do? Well, they're not as bad as the
paddlers as they said they used to be, but I guess
not the worst thing as far as I'm concerned is
having to take a cold bath about three o'clock in
the morning.
He said, But he says, it's all right, it's fine, I'm
forever a bit of it, because when you're
understood anyhow. Then Bill said, well listen,
if they get you up to do that at 3 o'clock in the
morning, when in the world do you sleep? He said, I
always sleep in class. He's just saying what he
shouldn't have said, don't you think? But that, I
thought I'd bust right open when he said that. And
Bill said, oh, shucks. Meeting adjourned.
Meeting adjourned. So that senior didn't get
anywhere down there. He didn't seem to get
anywhere, too many places, because the
legislature came out with laws and give gilches
intended to enforce them. And when the, The
captains went over and tendered their
resignations. He said, I hate to see you boys do
this to yourself, but all right, I'll accept them.
They didn't say you'd do that. This is 1947? Huh?
This is 1947 and the revolt?
Yes. That would have been in 47. It could have been
in the spring of 48.
Spring of 47. Well,
I guess it could have been the spring of 47. But I'm
down at Corpus now and I wasn't the track coach
until 46 and we didn't go down until that year. It
could have been, I think it must have been at least
48. Okay, 48 then.
And so the captains tendered their resignation.
The captains tendered The Corps captains
tendered their resignations. Yeah, all the
captains, every single captain presented their
resignations.
He just kind of hate to have to do it, but you're no
longer the captain. If you want to quit, I'll take
your resignation. Because we don't want you with
what you want.
We won't take you for what you want. We're just
going to have to do about some of these things." And
the law was back on us. And it happened. A&M started
just blooming.
And I started waiting.
I picked up Because more students were coming. And
I learned my lesson about recruiting. The first
one I got, couldn't make my team. The third year in
school, he couldn't even make my team. And he was
the high school champion quarter miler, but he
couldn't make my team. Why not? Because they had
boys better than he was that didn't go to the state
meet and win the darn thing. But they worked here
hard enough to where they could. Let me show you
that relay team. I can show you. You want to turn
that off now, sir, while? Sure.
Yeah, I'd like to ask you
a couple more questions. Why were you appointed
the first dean of men?
That is a combination job. The commandant before
my time was not the dean of men. I was the first dean
of men, but I was still the commandant. Why did they
decide to have a position of dean of men? All the big
schools had them. They thought they might as well
join. I used to go to the dean of men's meeting. Of
course, I wasn't in the job very long, but one year
it was in Austin, and I attended the dean of men's
meeting.
So I did the work of discipline plus the job of dean
of men. It was just a kind of a job. And then I had a
stenographer, a lady, and then two helpers.
And now they have spread out all over. Between the
DNM and the ComNet together, I mean, to have quite a
spread of helpers. Do you remember when Franklin
Roosevelt came to Texas A&M in 1937? I was in charge
of that day. Could you tell me about it? Well, he
came here on his special train. He got off. I had to
take the responsibility of guarding that man.
We had to submit a route that he would take a parade,
and I had to see to it that not another car was parked
on that thing. And
then just generally
see him in and out. of the talk he made. Of course he
had to have a little platform to hold up on. My
wife and my two young boys were there. I think
Wally, the younger one, was about five, something
like that probably. The other one was two years
older. Did you get to talk to President Roosevelt?
Did you get to talk with President Roosevelt?
Nothing, just to say hello.
I was not, I just, when I finally came in I just sat
down with my wife and two boys. He stayed there, he
had his own guards, but I was in charge and I had to
keep, had to keep people off of that route. So I had
some, I'd call them gray sergeants that worked
for me full time, people. Now they were the people
that when these people came back from Fort Worth
and had plundered the Texas Hotel, I told you about
that, I got those gray sergeants while these
people were drilling on Thursday afternoon and I
had written the hotel to the police. They told me
they didn't want us to come there anymore and I
wrote them back, just please tell me the names of
the people who were in that room where the stuff was
gone and we'll do what we can about it.
So while they were drilling on Thursday
afternoon, I got my gray sergeants together, and
there were four regular army officers that worked
for the commandant, not the PMS&T, but the
commandant. That's me. And we had pass keys to all
the rooms, and so we divided up by force, and we gave
this man a list of stuff that's in this dormitory
and this and this and this, And while they were
drilling, we went there and we got all that stuff.
Didn't I tell you that story? No. Well, I don't know
if we overlooked that one. So while they were
drilling, we went there, we unlocked their lock,
we went in there and we found every bit of that
stuff. One man had run off with a floor lamp. He was
the senior and the...
social secretary. He had run over the floor lamp.
The balance of them had been satisfied with towels
and blotters and a picture of something. But, oh
golly, we got it all. And so I just sent for those
boys one at a time. And I said, now, they have
written to us that they don't want us to come up
there anymore. We can't live with that. And I don't
want to do anything to you that will hurt you
deeply. You think you should have done that, I
guess. It's all right with you to do those things.
And a lot of people do and think nothing about it.
But this hotel writes us that they don't want us
anymore. So I've got to do something to you. You sit
down here, I've got the wrapping paper, and you
wrap this thing up, address it back to that hotel,
sign this letter that you apologize and promise
never to do such a thing like that again anywhere.
We'll go over here and you'll buy the stamps and
we'll mail you a package and stamp your letter.
And then, boy, you're not going to go to any other
football games away from home this year. And they
always had court trips in those days. And that was
the first one. And that's what did it at that hotel.
Next couple of weeks, we went to Houston. And I
wrote to Rice Hotel. I said, now, I'm working on
something up here, and I want your help. They
raided the Texas Hotel in Fort Worth pretty badly
two weeks ago, and I popped it to them. I want you to
be sure to get a record of everything that's gone
from your hotel.
And let me know. I got a letter from them a couple of
days after the game was over, and they said, oh,
don't bother about it. Don't bother. One fella
took a towel, but please just forget it. I
didn't tell you that story? That's what I did.
Those things happened. Now,
I talked against the toilet paper incident. I
talked against
the Yale leaders who would exhort these kids, you
be there. If you can't do anything else but catch a
freight train, you be there. If you can't get in a
ticket, climb a fence. You be there. You've got to
support this team. This
school was nuts.
Are you a Texan? No, I'm from Minnesota. Huh?
Minnesota, remember I told you I was from
Minnesota. Don't ever ask a man is he from Texas.
I'm a Tennessean, but I've been living out here so
darn long and I love it. I'm a Tennessean and we like
Tennessee a lot. We popularize the north half of
Texas. And a lot of my uncles, I remember an uncle of
mine putting his wife and kids into a covering
wagon on the head for Texas. And they're living up
here at Wolf City now. And some of them went
further, up to Chillicothe and on out to Quanah.
But up that lane, they're Tennessee people. Just
like my pioneer folks that came across the
Alleghenies when nobody owned the land but the
Indians. They did it coming on out here. Oh, I lose
the train of thought. I get off on so many things. I
was wondering about the relationship. You were in
the physical education department for a while.
And I was wondering about the relationship
between physical education department and the
athletic department. I had my privilege of doing
what I wanted to do when I went down there. Coach
Norton, I never did like him. I liked him all right.
He was all right, but he fired all my friends. And I
was coaching under him. And I wasn't enjoying it.
And when Dr. Walton offered me that job, I took it
for two reasons. I wanted to get away from there and
I wanted to crack at this. Well, I don't know that I
had my mind made up about wanting to crack at this,
but I must have because I wasn't doing too well in
track on account of what was happening up here. And
I felt like maybe I could make a contribution to
future track teams, future basketball and
baseball teams. As I said before, they had a hard
time maybe getting football players because boys
like, as I've told you before now, people are on
this, these football players go back and talk
about all the way things happened down here. He
kind of stared their nose off and they'd go
somewhere else. Yeah. I just thought maybe I could
help athletics by being the commandant of one. And
I thought I'd give it a quarrel, kind of a challenge
to me.
But they didn't want me. The faculty wanted me.
But the board of directors were all in them. I only
had one man on the board of directors. He was from
San Antonio. He was on my side.
But they wouldn't let me quit until four months.
And the furor order all passed over. And now here's
another man. There was an explanation one way or
another. They just had a new man. A man that I liked.
Colonel Moore was a fine friend of mine, and he
picked a commandant that I recommended too. He
picked a commandant, I mean a cadet colonel.
How did you get along with the former students?
Tell me about your relationship with the former
students, former student association.
Oh, I had a lot of friends among the former
students. but i don't just like i went to see a
governor one time and i said governor i wish you
would quit appointing people that want to take
over athletics let the people that there run that
thing they don't pay attention to you i don't like
politicians i don't like politicians i think they
are Well, that's nothing new 2,000 years ago.
Plato said it's a rotten type of government on
account of it's inefficient, it's wasteful, it's
disorganized, but we're not going to get rid of it
because we have our freedom, see? All the
others... make you do this, make you do that, won't
let you do this, won't let you do that. Hell, we let
you even kill somebody or steal somebody and get by
with it a lot of times. We'd give you too much in this
country. But all the darn politicians want is to be
re-elected, get elected, and then get
re-elected.
I mailed a letter today. You coming to me and just
following out some stuff I did yesterday. I don't
take much stock in politics. I was a mayor. I didn't
run for it. But after my conduct in that...